.TH HA-CLUSTER-INIT 8 "2011-05-24"
.SH NAME
ha-cluster-init \- Initialize the first node in a new HA cluster.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ha-cluster-init
[\fB-hqy\fR]
[\fB-i\fR \fIif\fR]
[\fB-s\fR \fIdev\fR]
[\fB-t\fR \fIname\fR]
[\fB-p\fR \fIdev\fR]
[\fB-o\fR \fIdev\fR]
[\fIstage\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ha-cluster-init
automates initial configuration of the first node in a SUSE
Linux Enterprise High Availability cluster.  If invoked
with no arguments, it will:
.IP 1.
Generate SSH keys for passwordless SSH between cluster nodes.
.IP 2.
Configure csync2, for synchronization of configuration files.
.IP 3.
Configure the Corosync cluster engine.
.IP 4.
Optionally, configure SBD fencing.
.IP 5.
Start the cluster.
.IP 6.
Start Hawk, so you can monitor the cluster and perform further
configuration in your web browser.
.PP
During the above process you will be prompted for some basic
configuration information.  This information can alternately
be specified via command line arguments.
.PP
Once you have one node running, you can add other nodes to
the cluster by running
.B ha-cluster-join
on each new node.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Display help message.
.TP
.B -q
Be quiet (don't describe what's happening, just do it).
.TP
.B -y
Answer "yes" to all prompts (use with caution, this is
destructive).
.TP
.BI "-i " interface
Default to IP address on
.I interface
instead of eth0 when configuring Corosync.
.TP
.BI "-s " device
Use
.I device
for SBD fencing.  The device path must be persistent and
consistent across all nodes in the cluster, so
.I /dev/disk/by-id/*
devices are a good choice.
.TP
.BI "-t " name
Perform additional cluster configuration based on the
named template.  Currently "ocfs2" is the only valid
template.  This will partition some shared storage into
two pieces, 1 megabyte for SBD, the remainder for OCFS2.
This is good for testing and demonstration, but not ideal
for production.  To use storage you have already
configured, pass
.B -s
and
.B -o
to specify the block devices for SBD and OCFS2, and the
automatic partitioning will be skipped.
.TP
.BI "-p " device
When using the ocfs2 template, partition the specified
block device as described above.
.TP
.BI "-o " device
When using the ocfs2 template, use the specified block
device for the OCFS2 filesystem (this is incompatible
with the
.B -p
option).
.TP
.I stage
Invoke only one stage of cluster initialization.  The
stage can be any one of
.I ssh,
.I csync2,
.I corosync,
.I storage
(ocfs2 template only),
.I sbd,
.I cluster
or
.I vgfs
(ocfs2 template only).
If unspecified, each stage will be executed in sequence.
.SH FILES
In addition to the Pacemaker CIB, the following files are
created or modified by \fBha-cluster-init\fR:
.PP
.I /root/.ssh/id_rsa
.I /root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
.I /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
.RS
Default ssh key and authorized_keys file for root user.
.RE
.I /etc/csync2/csync2.cfg
.I /etc/csync2/key_hagroup
.RS
csync2 configuration files.
.RE
.I /etc/corosync/corosync.conf
.RS
corosync configuration file.
.RE
.I /etc/sysconfig/sbd
.RS
SBD fencing configuration.
.RE
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A complete log of all actions is written to
.I /var/log/ha-cluster-bootstrap.log
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR csync2 (1),
.BR corosync (8),
.BR ha-cluster-join (8),
.BR ha-cluster-remove (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Tim Serong <tserong@suse.com>
